---
title: 写作句型
description: 写作中常用的各种方法以及对应的句型
date: 2024-12-18 12:00:00 +0800
categories: [root,学习]
tags: [English]
---

## 引言
### 现象法
> 引出要剖析的现象或问题，接着评论
>

1. With the rapid development of ...
2. According to recent survey, there have occured ...
3. There is a heated debate at present about the issue of ...

### 对比法
> 采用对比法的引言段常常把几种形成鲜明对比的事实或观点放在一起进行阐述
>

1. There is a public debate as to the issue ...
2. When it comes to ..., some people believe that..., while others regard ... as ...
3. Nowadays, it is commonly believed that ... However, ...
4. People used to think ..., but things are different now.

### 引用法
> 通过格言、谚语或习语点明中心，来唤起读者的共鸣。
>

1. There is an old / a populr saying which goes that...
2. A proverb says / goes, "..."
3. Many years ago, a great philosopher said that...

### 提问法
> 通过开头提出问题，引起读者注意，激发读者思考，造成悬念，引人入胜。
>

1. Have you ever seen / thought of / noticed ...?
2. Do you remember ...?
3. Which is more important in life,  ... or...?

### 数据法
> 开头部分引用调查、报告等的数据来展开介绍，其作用是可以增强文章的权威性和可靠性。
>

1. According to the research, more than 80 percent of people ...
2. The statistics present an undisputable fact that ...
3. The latest survey data shows / reveals that ...

---

## 正文
### 列举法
1. first, second, third … last
2. firstly, secondly, thirdly … finally
3. to begin with / to start with / in the first place / then, next, in addition to ,besides, also, what's more, moreover, another, still another instance, finally, last but no least

### 举例法
1. for example / instance, to take ... for example, such as ,like, say
2. a case in point is, here are a few examples, an illustration/example of this might be, this is best illustrated  / exemplified by

### 比较和对比法
1. Equally, likewise, also, both, as well as, in the same way, similarly, in a similar manner, in a like manner, yet, however
2. after all, in contrast, on the contrary, although this may be true, in contrast to, on the other hand, at the same time, in spite of
3. There are some / many / a few similarities between ...
4. Both A and B are ...
5. A and B seem to have much in common.
6. A and B seem to have some features in common.
7. A is similar to B in ...
8. A has something in common with B.

### 因果法
1. because, since, now that, because of, due to, as a result of
2. so, consequence, therefore, hence, thus
3. The result / effect / consequence of ... is ...
4. ... with result in ...
5. Therefore, ...
6. As a result (of), ...
7. Lead to, Result in, Contribute to, So that, Accordingly, In view of ...

### 分类法
1. Sth. may be classified / divided / categorized / put into several types / the following kinds / two categories / three main groups according to / on the basis of / depending upon ...
2. Sth. consists of / comprises ...
3. The classification is based upon ... 

### 时空顺序法

---

## 结尾
### 归纳法
> 使用总结性的语言简单总结文章的要点，以深化主题印象
>

1. All in all / In short / To sum up / In conclusion / In brief ...
2. On account of this, ...
3. From what has been discussed above, ...
4. Thus, it can be concluded that ...
5. Therefore, we can find that ...

### 引用法
1. There is an old saying ...
2. As everyone knows that ...
3. No one can deny that ...
4. I like the saying --... , which ...

### 展望法
1. If ... , ... can be improved / will not be far away / would ...
2. So let' s ...

### 建议法
1. It is necessary that proper steps should be taken to ...
2. Accordingly, I recommend that some measures be taken.
3. Consequently, to solve the problem, some measures should be taken.

