---
title: 词句升级
description: 高效提高作文的同义表达能力
date: 2025-01-07 9:00:00 +0800
categories: [root,学习]
tags: [English]
---

### 同义词群
人们		people / the public / individuals / citizens 

年轻人	young people / the young / youth

老年人	the old / the elderly / seniors / the aged

员工		workers / employees / staff

对手		rival / competitor / opponent

特点		trait / feature / characteristic / quality

结果		outcome / result / consequence

标准		standard / criteria

大量的	a lot of / plenty of / abundant / enormous

可行的	practical / feasible / workable / usable

重要的	important / significant / essential / crucial / critical

造成 / 产生	produce / generate / create

解决 / 处理	solve / resolve / settle / tackle / handle / deal with / cope with

使用 / 利用	use / utilize / employ / exploit / take advantage of

支持 / 资助	support / sponsor / back up / subsidize / finance

提高 / 加强	improve / promote / enhance / strengthen / facilitate / boost

改变 / 转变	change / shift / alter / transform / convert

重视 / 强调	highlight / underline / pay attention to 

忽视 / 轻视	ignore / neglect / underestimate

### 常用词替换
often	frequently

know	be aware of

people	individuals

good	beneficial

very		infinitely

many	numerous

at last	eventually

develop	cultivate

bad		dreadful / inferior

important	significant / crucial

make sb do sth.	enable sb to do sth

### 连词升级
1. to begin / start with；first and foremost；first of all
2. what's more；furthermore
3. Last but not least；in addition；finally

### 句型升级
> 多读书，丰富生活。
>

屌丝版：

+ We should read more books, because in this way we can enrich our life.

女神版：

+ It is about to infinitely enrich our life that we increasingly read more books.

（用 it 作形式主语的主语从句）

+ Only when we read more books can we enrich our life.

（only + 状语开头，倒装）

+ Frequently reading more books is about to increasingly enrich our life.

（非谓语结构的活用，并使用高级词汇）

+ We ought to infinitely read more books, which is about to increasingly enrich our life.

（非限制型定语从句）

+ Not until we increasingly read more books will we (get a lot of knowledge and) enrich our life.

（否定开头，倒装）

